welcome everyone this is the be weekly
IPL D team call its April the 15th 2019
first of all I asked everyone to put his
or her name in the crib head I also put
in a jet in case someone doesn't after
you were L and I need a note-taker any
volunteers for note-taking thanks rod
ok so M if you haven't put in the crib
pad yet what you worked on please do so
or any other agent items yeah so yeah
it's just yeah as I'm the first one the
list I start with me what I worked on
that's pretty short because I just
worked on the JavaScript IP LD formats
stuff which hopefully I will finish this
week and then we don't have endless
discussions in the JavaScript meeting
why why I don't get it done but
hopefully I'll finish that and then I
will probably work on the okey hours for
this quarter on the other ones
other than that I don't think I have any
news yeah so next on the list is rod
yep so I did pull request number 110 in
the IP LD specs repo so I did a bit of a
survey across some major standard
libraries looking at collections and
seeing looking at some of the
commonalities some of the groupings we
can group these these things together
and then put up some initial framing
thoughts in aspect in a pull request
there so the idea is that pull request
it creates a dock a directory that is
called was it called data structures
well there was already one they're
called data structures it's no lower
case in this and then the main document
is called utility collections and I've
changed some of the dependency graph and
the the stack picture just to generalize
this idea of collections as a
foundational data thing that we build on
top of
and so that document there has a lot of
thinking about what these collections
are going to be and how to categorize
them into things like singular versus
associative so lists versus maps and
ordered professes unordered and then
some of the kinds of things that that
are common across programming languages
because they're useful and some of the
operations that they commonly have so
hopefully that directory will soon be
filling out with specifications for all
kinds of data structures that build on
on those ideas anyway that's one thing
the other thing is Eric's going to talk
about the schema work that he's been
doing I've been working on that as well
trying to turn it into something that is
actually usable just to prove its
utility really is the initial aim so I
wrote a a grammar for it to pass it or
the current version it's pretty raw so
it'll you'll probably have to change but
the idea is to be able to get quickly
get to something that can do some basic
reading and writing of blocks so read a
block transform it into the shape that's
described in this in the schema and do
something with it
and when it connects it connected to
this collections logic so that when you
read a block block has some signifier in
it that says I am this kind of
collection you need to go to this place
to get the logic and then it does a
little bit of a dance with that logic to
defer to the logic to to move through
the collection and there's probably
going to be a back and forth where the
the logics is okay I'm done with this
block I need a new one you can get it
for me and then come back to me when
you've got it so a little bit of a back
and forth so I want to try and get to
something at least fairly raw fairly
quickly on that so that we're not you
know spinning wheels too long on this
academic idea of schemers and it's
actually proven useful anyway Eric over
to you about schemas yeah schemas
I guess they sort of exist now since we
started talking about them in earnest
last week and I've been wasting up some
TRS into the specs repo finally I think
those stops at all of all the existing
writing but trying to like get things in
some order as they go to the specs
frequent happen and thank you guys for
all the comments on that that parser is
also really pretty cool
she's very exciting to see so so yeah I
think we've got lots of interesting
conversations going on there already
I don't know broadly speaking how it is
going to be the most pleasant to
navigate some of those pr's in because
it's it's super super easy for any of
the discussions around the data model
specifications or the schema it's just
like there's a whole fractal of things
that need to be specified at some point
right and I have I just have no idea how
to keep how to like cleave different
parts of the fractal apart in the flow
Matic github issues it's just like a
skill that requires magic and as far as
I'm concerned but it's going well so far
and I don't know maybe some meta
discussion about that might be helpful
but I just have no idea what shape it
would take so I'm really excited about
the progress anyway and yeah I guess all
of that stuff is all I have to report so
it's been almost be ours you know what
I've been doing
cool thanks
next on the list is Dean yeah so we're
looking at some of the loop you peed
notes and seeing some of the recurring
issues about like it's essentially
basically we want something centralized
to get them working now but we don't
want to hamstring ourselves later and
there seem to be like four or five
issues that are all basically that
including one that looks like michael
has been doing some work on so I'm at I
took a look Michael at your your issue
too and interested more about what you
were thinking and decided to punt on ACL
type behavior for dag synchronization
because it's it's gonna require more
time than I have right now
to do that I think and so just sort of
do the normal you get one you get one
ACL for one name data structure and call
it a day
like IPS is currently doing and we'll
figure the next the rest out later
um and I'm gonna try again with IPL D
Prime in a week or two and see how that
goes cool next is Michael okay yeah I
have a bunch of stuff list okay so yeah
let me let me knock through this okay so
there was a bunch of stuff that happened
in the JavaScript I peeled e stack last
week so i'm limited browser dynamic
browser fetching of codecs so the idea
is that in the future if you just
compile this stuff with web pack none of
the codecs will actually be in the
default bundle except for like the raw
codec for lines and then all of the
codecs will come in dynamically as you
need them that should like really really
help bundle stuff in the future and
won't and and right now the way that
works in IVFs is that users up front
have to decide which codecs as they want
and sort of and send them in that they
and they can't get rid of any of the
default codecs as well it's a little bit
Lyndon I factored out all the
unnecessary async operations in the
block the idea here is that I'm starting
to implement a bunch of the performance
improvements that we kind of talked
about to make sure that the API model
that we have actually supports all of
these so that one was pretty cool you
can look at this there I migrated the
dag Jason implementation over to this
new stack which led to just a huge
deletion of code that's definitely an
endorsement of the work that we've done
to make codec development easier and in
the new interface this week I'm gonna
move all of you next 52 to over to the
ILD stack stuff and then I'm also going
to implement inlining of select
resources so that we can actually prove
that out and show how that works after
that the only thing that'll be waiting
on then is a Hampton permutation in
order to move forward with UNIX 52 like
that's the only thing we need to hand it
off to ipfs to integrate at that point
it'll be mostly complete except for the
ham stuff
okay the summit in Berlin we have
finalized t-shirts and then use so
that's all coming together this week I'm
going to put together the agenda a bunch
of stuff that's already in Google Docs
for the first two days haven't quite
mapped out the rest of them yet last
week you did we did in front of okay our
scoring hopefully you saw that and agree
with your scores I feel the earth so
this has been coming up a lot we're like
we need some kind of permanent cloud
store for IP LD blocks that is very very
simple and can host blocks on behalf of
people in an authenticated way I decided
to just write something real quick quick
using lambda so I registered a domain
called my TLD that Earth for it
we now have an AWS account for just the
IP LD project so that's cool and yeah I
immediately figured out that mark the
tools that we use for interacting with
lambda don't properly support binary
bodies inputs so that's giving protect
got fixed over the weekend and that
should go ahead and release today and I
should be able to make more progress and
I feel the earth and then I don't know
quite where I'll get with
project this week all right cool any
other questions or M has a question
about the how does the dynamic loading
in the browser work like where does it
come from
so do you pass in a us the i/o like no
like no no so um this is a way that this
works is that I use the import function
so like have you ever used the import
function before like in web pack or like
any project compiler will attack it
basically it gives you a promise to the
module and then web pack just under the
hood will do coat splitting on that Oh
busy by Christian is like if I use a
format in my code will wear pick
automatically bundle in goes against the
whole point of bundling yeah so this is
what happens right there there's like
these big if deaths in there so we have
to have like an if theft for every codec
that is ever possible right just like we
have now so this get code of module we
eventually like have like you know the
import function statements there and
then what web pack does is it it goes
okay I'm going to need that but I'm
going to break it out into a separate
file and load it asynchronously so what
happens with the web pack knows that
these are all these codecs are things
that you might use in the future but
none of them show up in the default
bundle what happens is that most of them
over HTTP dynamically and it creates
like hash based file names for all those
okay but basically if you build
something with web peg and you point
like the normal way it will be just in
the yeah the nice thing is that like
that import function is being
standardized so like eventually that
will even be in node and work more or
less the same as an asynchronous looking
back and there's nothing you've needed
to note necessarily but it would just
mean that like eventually we could not
have two entry points yeah yeah cool
things yeah okay I have a question and I
didn't realize that having a
standardized hampt was going to be a
necessity for getting unique
fSV - done I thought is that that MF s
stuff would exist as it is today so
we're essentially recreating MF s here
by formalizing the handle well no it's
not just in the fest right like any time
you create a directory with like a
bajillion files you're going to need a
hip so it's actually like part of just
UNIX that support in general it's not as
part of that as fast and the way that
this works in the assistive one was that
it was just like a one-off Hampton Pro
Toba and and so it's like not really
standardized so we need a Windows
Internet stamped on top of the data
model because because like you know this
works on any codec in the data model so
theoretically you should be able to
create dag JSON or Dex Ybor like graphs
that have UNIX s so yeah so we need that
that's slightly more generic Hampton at
some point it's not so it's a blocker to
get it released but we could actually
probably start the integration work
before we have this because the
interfaces from the UNIX from from this
library side will look identical whether
or not you use a hampt or not because
the way that it works is that it's just
an async generator that gives you all of
the blocks that you ever need for the
graph so it's just gonna end up giving
you more waha for all the intermediate
Hamptons in the future like that that
support should happen more or less
transparently so we could start the
integration in ipfs before let's
complete but that does place emergency
on getting that ham stuff yeah yeah well
want something that works by the end of
the quarter basically all right any any
other agenda before we move on to other
random things I don't
so just free to move on with them good
yeah yeah okay so um last week we had
this schemas talk and we also did like a
small demo like I said I'll talk about I
feel D Prime and selectors for the
styling team and they both went really
well
I feel like it gave us like a lot of
really good feedback and visibility into
those projects and we have a bunch of
other stuff coming down the pike now
that is just like stuff that we're
finishing up and are kind of ready to
hand off or these get more feedback on
so I'd like to turn it into just more of
a regular thing and so what I'm thinking
is that we do this meeting every other
week on the off week sometime midweek
not on Monday I want to put something on
the calendar for basically a Show and
Tell and we'll fill that in with
whatever project happens to be ready
every other week but we should at least
at the end of the quarter probably have
enough new things that we want to gather
feedback on to use that slot and as each
one comes up we should proactively
invite all the right people that we need
around to review that kind of stuff so
for the JavaScript saying we should get
like the Jazz people on it if it's like
a good thing we should get to go people
in etc so you mean like have a generic
Show and Tell slots and then agenda an
actual like recommended attendees may
bury you right right and we may even
have to move the timing a little bit to
accommodate those attendees depending on
their time zones cool any other
questions concerns and Molly was first
you pointed at me on my screen so I
don't know what so I have a quick
request when it comes to ipfs camp which
is coming up in June and Michael and I
have been chatting a little bit about
kind of like attendance and stuff you
know this is not a required event for
folks but we are creating a lot of
awesome new content that's meant to like
live on passes event so it's like very
much targeted to be done to get everyone
up like level up during the campus
people that are coming will participate
but also kind of in the future this
stuff lives on proto school
is like more available to arrested
community and something that would be
used in a lot of other workshops and
tutorials it's a kind of there's there's
four main courses that we are planing to
create and have everyone walk through
for ipfs camp and one of them is kind of
like the core understanding how ipfs
deals with files and tags and all of us
seven so it's very much UNIX makes if
sv1 stuff's not v2 because it doesn't
exist yet but currently the people who
are kind of on tapped to help us develop
that particular course are Alan and
Steven we were thinking that it would be
really useful to have a group of three
with someone from IP LD kind of jumping
in there from kind of a dated model
perspective on how we deal with files
and so depending on if there's anyone
who's interested in coming from IPL B
wind who wants to help us create this
course that would be useful so I can
make an ask on github or what we're also
like not necessarily trying to publicize
all the content we're creating ahead of
time so that all attendees already know
what we're doing before they even show
up which would be a little bit of a you
know not as exciting and surprising but
kind of request for for someone on my
field decide who has bandwidth to kind
of collaborate with Alan and Steven to
create his kind of like files level
workshop to think about if you would be
interested in doing that I mean I can
probably help out I think the problem is
that I actually don't know UNIX se1 very
well at all
like I put all of my time into the new
one I say I actually don't know very
well like how to work with the portable
stuff that would be the only problem but
I know like how protocol works really
well and I can help anybody else more
familiar folk are you very familiar at
all with and I know like probably I know
like the the lowest level basically
which also isn't that useful so I miss
the things in between but but I can show
like also like help order like if
there's any like low level questions but
I don't know I get like I'm a true if I
know more than probably Ellen does but
yeah I see yeah file issues or ask me or
I don't know I saw as I'm able to about
so I guess so I'm Michael should be
probably just split it between us so you
do the high level stuff and if you have
questions you just come back to me is
Michael you in from a like dris
perspective as a router of information
to humans in ITIL deal and to to help
propagate okay by that you don't mean
that I'm the DRI for the whole thing
right you just need you and Alan and
Steven you are the I fielding
representative within that group perfect
thank you if we ever got time Michael
even if I if I try and extract a lot of
information on this like web seeds kind
of thing in here yeah I mean I mean the
general problem right is that like and
and this was a problem with the torrent
as well which is that you have a section
of data that is in really high demand
and so there's a lot of peers available
to serve that content and then you have
this big long tail of data that's hardly
ever accessed and so and there's almost
never peers on it and it's like
prohibitively expensive to run a
BitTorrent no it's constantly it's a
sort of that data that only gets
accessed like once a month so they did
the system called web seeds where you
could basically just like along with the
trackers right so you have like each
tracker and then you can also just say
okay here's an Earl and it's basically
at the peer of last resort so if you
can't find files like through any of
these tracks or peers on any of these
trackers and fall back to this and it
works really well actually it's what
like most of the web tour and people use
when they put my content up and stuff
like that so it just dramatically
reduces their bandwidth bill but it
doesn't you know change their storage so
obviously because still storing it
permanently somewhere but yeah it works
quite well and we have a similar problem
with some of the partners that we talked
to in DFS lines like
so like I really wanted to see something
like that we have a distinct advantage
in that we don't have to say oh here's a
URL to content we can actually say
here's a URL to box because and you can
treat it like any other box covering
mechanism like you were trying to do III
wasn't being very prescriptive at all
about like the mechanism by which we
surfaced this like for how you enable it
like I don't I don't really care I mean
the effect is going to be the same if
somebody can build an application and
say okay I'm gonna put my data here try
to get it out of the the peer-to-peer
network but like if not then solve
accidents and that's fine and so your
proposal totally works for that but you
can see some of the discussion there's
probably quite well that any other
beacon question yeah yeah because as far
as I understood the current plan is that
in the in the future asterisk or gonna
replace all the provide records was
looking for multi hashes anyway so so
yeah I have concerns with that because
so in that case you would just do the
base 32 of the multicast rather than the
mysteries of this the idea I think that
we want it to be CID because if I've
been certain as we're sort of building
up this I feel did honor thing I've been
starting to think about what it would
look like to have a service that was
providing blocks on behalf of like
thousands of people potentially millions
of people so like billions of blocks
that millions to the core whole thing
one really important information piece
of information that helps you a lot is
to be able to look up a CID and know if
you also already store the whole graph
underneath it if not then every time
that you do is sink or you ask like hey
do you have this information you have to
parse the entire graph and follow the
entire graph and so what a service or
even honestly eventually like regular
nodes they're going to want to do is
store a little piece of infirmity data
next to the CID that says oh yeah I also
have like so at some point we will
probably want to make like a protocol
adjustment on the bits web side to say
like hey do you have all of the data
underneath this CID and expose that same
kind of thing and if we just the same
thing over HTTP we would want
to be in some kind of a header right and
and but in order to do that you have to
be talking about a CID another multi
hash right because that you don't know
what the codec is from the multi
actually you can't tell if you have all
the data all the data sorry all the data
that links to in the graph yeah so
that's that's why I was saying go with
CID and then the base 32 is just like we
have to pick an encoding you can put it
in there oh yeah I think I heard what I
was thinking is that we already have Sam
Welker and just why like why do you need
the the codec and not just the hash like
what why do you need the full CD
information and and the codec wouldn't
you also like I don't even see the
relation between no if you have a tree
beneath your CID or not depending on is
a CN you're just a hash so I don't get
deep well because like because if it's
just a multi hash you don't know how to
ask it for links so how would you be
able to go and determine if you stored
all the data oh then get the databases
just service the hash but then you don't
know what it actually is what do you
just okay you know I guess what I was
thinking is that the DHT currently
responds to you with these like pure
info records which are peer ID and a set
out like parodies and the multi
addresses if the peer ID was just like
null you would be okay because the multi
address could just be a URL right right
right
um and that requires not really making
anyone else who's currently running a
node change their software it just means
that the people who when you read the
data the interface nothing needs to not
return a pair info object which is what
I think which is what it currently does
right but wouldn't you you would have to
but just saying it's a multi address is
probably not enough right because you're
going to need this like it's not bad to
the earth or are you just saying that
like okay so further
purposes of these careful records if you
get a multi address you are just
expected to encode see IDs and attach
them to and like append them to it it's
not like what is considered at that
point okay there was a thing that you're
Steven mentioned in terms of adding like
like metadata information of like where
to get the rest of the blocks or like
what's the structure of the file but I
guess the idea was you know I run an I
advertised hey this block is available
at this URL
Oh everything okay yeah and then you can
get it okay I think so on our side we
were thinking more like you just
actually don't have the teeth did DHT at
all
so on a node you would say like look for
this stuff in the DST and if you can't
find it fall back to this URL where's
this a bit different because this is
actually the record that's in the DHT so
that makes sense then yeah it's a little
less it is it requires one more trip
because you actually still have to do a
DHT request and can't just go hit the
you know s3 bucket directly but it still
allows all the it doesn't make you have
to do like a hard fork to the
centralized world you just sort of gets
a naturally closer yeah I mean at the
very least it would be like I guess he
really easing Lee layering in that kind
of a service though where you just take
like oh if I got back a record with
nothing in it and I'm just gonna add
this record to this URL and my try it
and we have out of time just so we have
40 half an hour so I would ask you to
Kate offline yes is there anything else
I wanna discuss or I don't see any hands
then I will close the meeting and see
you all again in two weeks
goodbye everyone